.\" Man page for wav2chat
.TH WAV2CHAT 1 "June 2026" "wav2chat 0.1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
wav2chat \- convert audio recordings into speaker-segmented chat transcripts
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B wav2chat
[\fIOPTION\fR]... [\fIINPUT\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B wav2chat
converts phone recordings, meeting recordings, or other audio files into
chat-style text segmented by speaker.
.PP
Processing pipeline:
.IP \(bu 3
normalize input with \fBffmpeg\fR to mono 16 kHz WAV
.IP \(bu 3
transcribe with FunASR (paraformer-zh, fsmn-vad, ct-punc, cam++)
.IP \(bu 3
write timestamped \fB.txt\fR and/or structured \fB.json\fR output
.PP
Supported input formats: \fB.wav\fR, \fB.mp3\fR, \fB.m4a\fR, \fB.amr\fR,
\fB.aac\fR, \fB.flac\fR, \fB.ogg\fR.
.PP
The first release targets Chinese phone and meeting audio.
When \fB\-g\fR is used, a desktop GUI is opened instead of CLI batch processing.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Show help message and exit.
.TP
.BI \-o ", " \-\-output " PATH
Write transcript text to \fIPATH\fR.
In batch mode, \fIPATH\fR is an output directory.
.TP
.BI \-\-json " " PATH
Write transcript JSON to \fIPATH\fR.
In batch mode, \fIPATH\fR is an output directory.
.TP
.BR \-b ", " \-\-batch
Process all supported audio files in a directory.
.TP
.BI \-e ", " \-\-backend " NAME
Transcription backend (default: \fBfunasr\fR).
.TP
.BI \-l ", " \-\-lang " CODE
Language hint (default: \fBzh\fR).
.TP
.BI \-n ", " \-\-min\-speakers " N
Minimum number of speakers for diarization.
.TP
.BI \-m ", " \-\-max\-speakers " N
Maximum number of speakers for diarization.
.TP
.BI \-r ", " \-\-role " SPK=NAME
Map speaker id to display name.
Option may be repeated, for example \fB\-\-role spk0=Me \-\-role spk1=Other\fR.
.TP
.BR \-k ", " \-\-keep\-temp
Keep the normalized intermediate WAV file next to the input.
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-verbose
Print debug information.
.TP
.BR \-q ", " \-\-quiet
Suppress non-error output.
.TP
.BR \-g ", " \-\-gui
Open the desktop GUI.
\fIINPUT\fR is optional in GUI mode.
.TP
.BI \-\-ui\-lang " " CODE
UI language: \fBen\fR, \fBzh\fR, \fBja\fR, or \fBko\fR.
Default: auto-detect from \fBLANG\fR/\fBLC_MESSAGES\fR.
.TP
.BR \-\-version
Show program version and exit.
.SH EXAMPLES
Convert one file, writing \fBcall.txt\fR by default:
.PP
.EX
wav2chat call.m4a
.EE
.PP
Write explicit txt and json outputs:
.PP
.EX
wav2chat call.m4a \-o call.txt \-\-json call.json
.EE
.PP
Batch-convert a directory:
.PP
.EX
wav2chat ./calls \-b \-o ./texts \-\-json ./jsons
.EE
.PP
Two-party phone call with speaker labels:
.PP
.EX
wav2chat call.wav \-n 2 \-m 2 \-r spk0=Me \-r spk1=Other
.EE
.PP
Launch the GUI:
.PP
.EX
wav2chat \-g
.EE
.SH FILES
.TP
.I *.txt
Timestamped chat transcript.
.TP
.I *.json
Structured transcript with segments, speakers, and roles.
.TP
.I *_normalized.wav
Intermediate WAV created when \fB\-k\fR is used.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B PATH
Must include \fBffmpeg\fR for audio normalization.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success.
.TP
.B 1
User or processing error.
.TP
.B 130
Interrupted (Ctrl-C).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ffmpeg (1)
.PP
Project home: https://github.com/lenik/wav2chat
.SH BUGS
Report issues at https://github.com/lenik/wav2chat/issues
.SH AUTHOR
Lenik \(la wav2chat@bodz.net \(ra
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2026 Lenik.
Licensed under the GNU Affero General Public License v3 or later.
See LICENSE for full terms, including supplemental restrictions.
